docs/config_examples/StaticRoute/README.md, before:

# StaticRouteSupport

Support for CIS to configure static routes in BIG-IP with node subnets assigned for the nodes in the OpenShift/k8s cluster.This enables direct routing from BIGIP to k8s Pods in cluster mode without vxaln tunnel configuration on BIGIP.

## Configuration
* To enable the static route configuration, set ``--static-routing-mode`` to ``true`` and ``--orchestration-cni`` to CNI configured in the cluster.
```
   args:
     --static-routing-mode=true
     --orchestration-cni=<ovn-k8s/flannel/antrea/cilium-k8s>
```
* With CNI ovn-k8s, if node has multiple interfaces --static-route-node-cidr can be configured to specify node network from which nodeip has to be selected. Without this config, CIS always picks primary interface address from annotation k8s.ovn.org/node-primary-ifaddr on node manifest as nodeip for static route creation on BIGIP.Use cis-deployment-ovn-k8s-mnic.yaml to deploy with this configuration.
```
    args:
      --static-route-node-cidr=10.4.0.0/14
```

## Parameters for StaticRoutingMode

| Parameter              | Type    | Required | Default | Description                                                                                                                          | Allowed Values                      | Agent | Minimum Supported CIS Version |
|------------------------|---------|----------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-------|-------------------------------|
| static-routing-mode    | Boolean | Optional | false   | Adds Static Routes on the BIGIP so that traffic can be directly route to the pods. (Without tunnels)                                 | true, false                         | AS3   | 2.13.0                        |
| orchestration-cni      | String  | Optional | flannel | Kubernetes Cluster CNI Name                                                                                                          | cilium-k8s, flannel,ovn-k8s, antrea | AS3   | 2.13.0                        |
| shared-static-routes   | Boolean | Optional | false   | When set to true, static routes are created on the /Common partition, which can be valid only when static-routing-mode is enabled.   | true, false                         | AS3   | 2.14.0                        |
| static-route-node-cidr | String  | Optional | NA      | To specify node network cidr to be used for static routing when node has multiple interfaces.This is supported only with CNI ovn-k8s | Any valid CIDR eg: 10.4.0.0/14      | AS3   | 2.15.0                        |


## cis-deployment-ovn-k8s.yaml

By deploying this yaml file in your cluster, cis will be configured with static route enabled for ovn-k8s environment.Route will be configured with name in the format ``k8s-<nodename>-<nodeip>`` as shown below.

### BIGIP-Config:

Validate static routes added on to BIGIP
![static_route config](static-route.png?raw=true "static route config")

**Note:**

* StaticRoutingMode is required only with cluster mode where vxlan tunnel is not configured.
* CIS uses --orchestration-cni to read node subnet info and nodeip based on the CNI configured.

### Troubleshooting

In case static routes are not added, along with looking at CIS logs you can also look at below annotations to check if CNI is properly assigning podcidr and nodeip to the node.

**Steps:**

* kubectl describe node ``<nodename>``
* Look for below annotations based on CNI configured, because CIS uses these annotations to read podCIDR and nodeIP allocated to node to create route records dynamically on the BIGIP.

| CNI configured          | Annotations/Spec Required                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ovn-k8s                 | OVNK8sNodeSubnetAnnotation = "k8s.ovn.org/node-subnets",OVNK8sNodeIPAnnotation = "k8s.ovn.org/node-primary-ifaddr" by default or OVNK8sNodeIPAnnotation = "k8s.ovn.org/host-addresses" if --static-route-node-cidr is configured in CIS deployment args | k8s.ovn.org/node-subnets is podCIDR allocated to the node.node-primary-ifaddr should have nodeip reachable from BIGIP                                                                                          |
| cilium-k8s              | CiliumK8sNodeSubnetAnnotation12 = "io.cilium.network.ipv4-pod-cidr" or CiliumK8sNodeSubnetAnnotation13 = "network.cilium.io/ipv4-pod-cidr", node ip from field node.Status.Addresses                                                                    | io.cilium.network.ipv4-pod-cidr or network.cilium.io/ipv4-pod-cidr annotation is used based on cilium version to read podcidr allocated. Nodeip is parsed from node manifest using field node.Status.Addresses | 
| antrea/flannel(default) | podcidr from node.Spec.PodCIDR, nodeIP from node.Status.Addresses                                                                                                                                                                                       | podcidr is parsed from node manifest using field node.Spec.PodCIDR and Nodeip is parsed using field node.Status.Addresses                                                                                      |

Commit message:

Support for Calico CNI with static route (#3392)

docs/config_examples/StaticRoute/README.md, after:

# StaticRouteSupport

Support for CIS to configure static routes in BIG-IP with node subnets assigned for the nodes in the OpenShift/k8s cluster.This enables direct routing from BIGIP to k8s Pods in cluster mode without vxaln tunnel configuration on BIGIP.

## Configuration
* To enable the static route configuration, set ``--static-routing-mode`` to ``true`` and ``--orchestration-cni`` to CNI configured in the cluster.
```
   args:
     --static-routing-mode=true
     --orchestration-cni=<ovn-k8s/flannel/antrea/cilium-k8s/calico>
```
* With CNI ovn-k8s, if node has multiple interfaces --static-route-node-cidr can be configured to specify node network from which nodeip has to be selected. Without this config, CIS always picks primary interface address from annotation k8s.ovn.org/node-primary-ifaddr on node manifest as nodeip for static route creation on BIGIP.Use cis-deployment-ovn-k8s-mnic.yaml to deploy with this configuration.
```
    args:
      --static-route-node-cidr=10.4.0.0/14
```
### Calico CNI
* For Calico CNI you need to add the following permissions to the CIS service account to read blockaffinities.

```yaml
- apiGroups:
  - crd.projectcalico.org
  resources:
  - blockaffinities
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
```

## Parameters for StaticRoutingMode

| Parameter              | Type    | Required | Default | Description                                                                                                                          | Allowed Values                              | Agent | Minimum Supported CIS Version |
|------------------------|---------|----------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-------|-------------------------------|
| static-routing-mode    | Boolean | Optional | false   | Adds Static Routes on the BIGIP so that traffic can be directly route to the pods. (Without tunnels)                                 | true, false                                 | AS3   | 2.13.0                        |
| orchestration-cni      | String  | Optional | flannel | Kubernetes Cluster CNI Name                                                                                                          | cilium-k8s, flannel,ovn-k8s, antrea, calico | AS3   | 2.13.0                        |
| shared-static-routes   | Boolean | Optional | false   | When set to true, static routes are created on the /Common partition, which can be valid only when static-routing-mode is enabled.   | true, false                                 | AS3   | 2.14.0                        |
| static-route-node-cidr | String  | Optional | NA      | To specify node network cidr to be used for static routing when node has multiple interfaces.This is supported only with CNI ovn-k8s | Any valid CIDR eg: 10.4.0.0/14              | AS3   | 2.15.0                        |


## cis-deployment-ovn-k8s.yaml

By deploying this yaml file in your cluster, cis will be configured with static route enabled for ovn-k8s environment.Route will be configured with name in the format ``k8s-<nodename>-<nodeip>`` as shown below.

### BIGIP-Config:

Validate static routes added on to BIGIP
![static_route config](static-route.png?raw=true "static route config")

**Note:**

* StaticRoutingMode is required only with cluster mode where vxlan tunnel is not configured.
* CIS uses --orchestration-cni to read node subnet info and nodeip based on the CNI configured.

### Troubleshooting

In case static routes are not added, along with looking at CIS logs you can also look at below annotations to check if CNI is properly assigning podcidr and nodeip to the node.

**Steps:**

* kubectl describe node ``<nodename>``
* Look for below annotations based on CNI configured, because CIS uses these annotations to read podCIDR and nodeIP allocated to node to create route records dynamically on the BIGIP.

| CNI configured          | Annotations/Spec Required                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ovn-k8s                 | OVNK8sNodeSubnetAnnotation = "k8s.ovn.org/node-subnets",OVNK8sNodeIPAnnotation = "k8s.ovn.org/node-primary-ifaddr" by default or OVNK8sNodeIPAnnotation = "k8s.ovn.org/host-addresses" if --static-route-node-cidr is configured in CIS deployment args | k8s.ovn.org/node-subnets is podCIDR allocated to the node.node-primary-ifaddr should have nodeip reachable from BIGIP                                                                                          |
| cilium-k8s              | CiliumK8sNodeSubnetAnnotation12 = "io.cilium.network.ipv4-pod-cidr" or CiliumK8sNodeSubnetAnnotation13 = "network.cilium.io/ipv4-pod-cidr", node ip from field node.Status.Addresses                                                                    | io.cilium.network.ipv4-pod-cidr or network.cilium.io/ipv4-pod-cidr annotation is used based on cilium version to read podcidr allocated. Nodeip is parsed from node manifest using field node.Status.Addresses | 
| antrea/flannel(default) | podcidr from node.Spec.PodCIDR, nodeIP from node.Status.Addresses                                                                                                                                                                                       | podcidr is parsed from node manifest using field node.Spec.PodCIDR and Nodeip is parsed using field node.Status.Addresses                                                                                      |

#### Troubleshooting for CALICO CNI

In case static routes are configured with calico CNI, you can check the logs of CIS to see if the blockaffinities are being read properly. If not, you can check the permissions of the CIS service account to read blockaffinities. You can also check and verify that the blockaffinities are being created properly in the calico CNI.
